Somewhere in America tonight, some dummy will enter a costume contest in a bar. He will be wearing an ICE uniform and will be missing the clown makeup. He’ll win first prize and get in a fight with his girlfriend.
Please post the mugshot here in the morning.



Last night we attended the last performance of our daughter’s marching band. I was so proud of her performance, but I couldn’t help but share the best part of the show.
These two auxiliary percussionists, unfortunately, I couldn’t get the long-haired kid in the shot very well. While the one playing the bass drum played like Keith Moon, the other banged the gong, helping to keep the bass drum from falling off its stand. It was amazing to listen to and watch this teamwork in action. The entire group showed so much joy just playing together that it translated to the crowd. When they were done, we gave them a standing ovation.
It made me forget about all the terrible stuff going on in the world for a few minutes. For that, I am grateful.



Today I am thankful we didn’t have to go anywhere especially because it is a national holiday. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martyrs'_Day_(Panama)

We had one hell of a time getting out of the capital yesterday and the extra traffic nearly doubled the minutes driving home. Add the fact that everyone drives like they are in the middle of a game of Super Mario cart. The rules of the road are like ours really except it is required that you operate your vehicle like an asshole. Truck drivers install blinding lights on the cab’s side mirrors that face backwards so when you try to pass they flash them to spook you off the road. There’s this, “Me first, you don’t matter” attitude that is seriously childish. It is hard for Dad, somebody who is for the most part a calm guy, not to yell out obscenities in the car when somebody pisses him off. He never behaves like this and getting used to it isn’t easy for me. I imagine it takes a few days to acclimate one’s self back into another culture and get into the swing of living on the edge. I get mad when we are in the city and some cab driver tries something that nearly causes an accident for no apparent reason. I instinctively want to pull the jerk from the taxi by his throat and beat him with a tire iron. Lucky for him said blunt object is safely locked in the trunk. However, Panamanian jail would make the city streets seem like Mayberry and that’s not what I’m here for. You can see it’s really hard to be surrounded by such stupidity and callousness and not stoop their level though.

The other thing that makes me crazy is that people here don’t appreciate how beautiful the land is here. It is so common to see people thrust trash out the window and litter up the view of the most beautiful mountains or the scenic plains I’ve ever seen. They seem to want to tackle everything at once but basic issues like regular trash collection and recycling are on low on the priority list from my perspective. These problems aren’t unique to Panama and in many ways they are above the norm in Mexico and other parts of Central America.

It seems that José Domingo Arias is favored to win the coming presidential election here. Dad says it will be a good thing for the existing party to stay in power but with a younger leader. A lot of Panama’s social problems surround that fact that the country hasn’t shaken loose from a lot of its’ backward ways. Look at the facts. In my lifetime the US has relinquished control of the Canal back to the people. They were torn apart and scarred by the Noriega dictatorship. Then Panama had to figure out democracy in the face of massive corruption that is still rampant today.

Now that I’ve ruined your plans to visit please step back and understand that the youth of Panama get it. They’ve had to deal with live in an ex-third-world country long enough and they see the other side. Every single young person I’ve dealt with at the modern malls and supermarkets have been cheerful and patient. They know that while Panama needs to pull itself up and into the game they don’t have to do it alone. It’s not just gringos from the states building resorts and investing here. The Swiss and Canadians are onboard and pumping money into the economy. They know how valuable this country is to the rest of the world and it’s not just because of the Canal.

Please know that my view is skewed and unless you read everything I’ve written to this point this post may seem like a slam on the motherland. That’s not my intent. I was a little boy the last time I was here. Panama has come a very long way in a short time and that’s part of the reason I’m here. My family heritage is important to me and steps I’ve taken on this trip have been purposeful. We are part of this land by birthright and I don’t want anyone to question that or try to steal any more of what did from my grandfather Chago. I don’t have the money to build a home here but hopefully I will someday and maybe by then Panama will have worked out the kinks. I just don’t want this country to lose the color and charm in the process.